# eLearning

## How the class works

<Foldable>

We have five types of interactions that together makes up "eLearning":

* **Asynchronous interactions**: Because of time-zone differences, we will not be online at the same time.  Microsoft Teams is a chat-room / collaboration tool that let us maintain a single channel of conversation.  When you get onto [*teams.microsoft.com*](https://teams.microsoft.com/) it should automatically put you in the right channel; if not, here is the
link to join the [Teams channel](https://teams.microsoft.com/l/channel/19%3a3e4db2c5b7b6483495c0c2d20516ad26%40thread.skype/General?groupId=08733f60-e7db-4fc5-8f35-b0caf52e1834&tenantId=7637b993-7e86-4653-a3e2-c87c46e1321a)

* **Synchronous interactions** ("face-to-face"): We will be using [Zoom](https://zoom.us/) as the video conferencing software.  The College had purchased a subscription.  The meetings can be directly accessed through the Teams channel.

* **Chemistry activities**: we have arranged for two kinds of digital chemistry experiences:
  * *Yenka* is a virtual lab, where you can "react" chemicals and observed properties, whereas
  * *Atomsmith* is a simulation suite for visualizing chemistry at the atomic level.

* **Video lecture**: I'll prepare video lectures that introduces the material.  There are questions / pausing points in there --- I strongly suggest you to give them a try instead of running through it.

* **Practice**: Doing chemistry is a skill.  Just like you can't learn guitar by listening to Spotify or going to a concert, you can't learn chemistry by watching.  Do the advised exercises and upload them to the ManageBac dropboxes.

</Foldable>

## Lessons Index

<Foldable>

<iframe class="airtable-embed" src="https://airtable.com/embed/shr3cZ2WSglOjzG8q?backgroundColor=purple&viewControls=on" frameborder="0" onmousewheel="" width="100%" height="533" style="background: transparent; border: 1px solid #ccc;"></iframe>

</Foldable>

## Lesson 2

Enthalpy lab upload: if you have not yet scanned and uploaded your lab worksheet as a PDF to ManageBac, please do that.

### Enthalpy simulation

For today, install and use Yenka to simulate what you have already done before in the lab.

1. download and install Yenka [here using this link](https://www.yenka.com/en/Download_the_Yenka_installer/). 
2. activate using the code provided in email
3. explore and play with it, then
4. reproduce the enthalpy experiment virtually.  Arrive at a Temp vs time graph for the reaction between 
   * 25 cm^3^ 1.0M HCl and 
   * 25.0 cm^3^ 1.0M NaOH.
5. Save your model and take a screenshot.  Upload to ManageBac dropbox.

### Chemical properties in the periodic table

* Read the textbook chapter 3, pages 111–118.
* Complete the exercises in the blue boxes in a chemistry exercise book.
* Check your answers (same folder as textbook)
* Scan the PDF of your **corrected** answer, and upload to MB dropbox by Monday 9 pm HKT.

## Lesson 3

### The taxi problem 🚕

::: tip Real time session 

This is a real-time video conferencing session.  The link to join is [here](https://zoom.us/j/361158292?from=msft).

:::

The year is 2000.  You have been appointed the 🚚 Transport Secretary of Hong Kong 🇭🇰.  It is known to be "more environmentally friendly" for cars to run on LPG instead of gasoline, and you want the taxis 🚕 to all change to using LPG.  Fuel costs are actually lower using LPG too, so it's win-win all around.

However, using LPG requires switching out the engine (which is  expensive) and the taxi owners are asking for a subsidy.  The Chief Executive asked you to make a decision about how much 💰 is the right subsidy.